Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about the assembler, Linker and Loader.
So as we know the source code or the actual
C code is given to the compiler
And then it is passed to the pre-processor
and the pre- processor will produce the pure C code and
then it is actually compiled and produces the assembly code
So what is an assembler? An assembler is also
a type of compiler and it takes assembly code
as the input and translates it into the object code
So the difference between compiler and assembler is that compiler
convert source code into Assembly Code and the assembler Converts the
Assembly code in to Object code
But the object file might have some unresolved symbols
and functions such as printf. that is here  our
programme has a printf statement
The compiler only verifies whether the printf function follows the
correct prototype. It won't bother about the actual implementation of
printf function exist or not
So here comes the need of linker
So the Linker is the utility programme which resolves The
unresolved symbols and functions and combines the
multiple object files into a single executable file
So this object code is passed to the Linker
it will link the actual implementation of printf function code
from the runtime library and makes it an executable
file
Now suppose the compilation process generates multiple object files
Maybe an unresolved symbol from an object file might reside
in another object  file
See an example unresolved symbol x
in second object file resides in first object file
here
The linker  will restore X by linking it with
the first object file
Similarly it will also link the actual implementation of printf
function from the run time library
Finally the Linker will combine all the object files
and generates a single executable file
Now what if the linker is unable to find the
undersolved symbol or function's code? then a linker error will
be thrown
So pre processing, compiling, assembling and linking is done and
we got the executable file
Now we need to load it into the random access
memory for that we need a loader
So when we execute the programme the loader will read
the instructions from the Executable file and loads it
into the random access memory and prepares them for the
execution. Finally CPU initiates the programme execution by calling the
starting address and the output hello world will be printed on
the screen
So let us just quickly revise
This whole process the source code is sent to the
pre-processor. Pre-processor makes it the pure C code
And then this pure C code is sent to the
compiler and the compiler converts it into the assembly
code and then the assembly code is sent to the assembler
The assembler takes the assembly code and converts it
into the object code and the linker takes the
unresolved object code and converts them into an executable
file and the loader loads executable file
into main memory and prepares it for execution. So that's all and thank you for watching this video.